Add descriptions for the first four noise types (#119)
ihmeuw/pseudopeople: docs/source/noise/column_noise.rst

Column-based Noise
==================

> Column-based noise introduces errors in individual fields within a row of data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Column-based noise introduces errors in an individual cell within a row of data.
```

Reviewer 2: As noted in the RT/SE check-in yesterday, it's probably confusing to refer to rows in the description of column noise, and especially here since we're not contrasting it with row-based noise. Perhaps we could say something like:

"Column-based noise operates on one column of data at a time, introducing errors to individual cells within the column."

Or something.

> The types implemented in pseudopeople are listed below, along with instructions

Author: I _think_ we're sticking with lowercase! We can plan to change these everywhere at once, if we change our mind about that.

about how to configure them.

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Leave a field blank
-------------------

> When this noise type occurs, whatever value was supposed to be collected is missing for this row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this noise type occurs, whatever value was supposed to be collected is missing for this cell.
```

Reviewer 2: It would also be good if we could somehow clarify that "whatever value was supposed to be collected" is the column name, i.e., drive home the point that we are applying this to a specific column. With the current description, it seems like we could be blanking out cells willy-nilly all over the dataframe.

Reviewer 2: Here's a suggested edit for this whole paragraph, switching the order around:

> Often some of the data in certain columns of a dataset will be missing. This could be because the input for that field was left blank, an answer was refused, or the answer was illegible or unintelligible. When this type of noise occurs, pseudopeople will replace the value in the relevant cell with ``numpy.nan`` to indicate that the value is missing.

This could be because the input was left blank, an answer was refused,
or the answer was illegible or unintelligible.
pseudopeople will output a :code:`numpy.nan` value in
the relevant cell.

This noise type is called :code:`leave_blank` in the configuration. It takes one parameter:

> .. list-table:: Parameters to the :code:`leave_blank` noise type

Reviewer 2: I don't like how the code font looks in the table title -- maybe just write leave_blank in normal text here.

  :widths: 1 5 1
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Parameter
    - Description
    - Default
  * - :code:`cell_probability`
    - The probability that a cell in the column being configured is blank.
      This probability is the same for all cells in a column;

>       missingness is not correlated with any attributes.

Reviewer 2: Attributes of what? I'm confused by the part after the semicolon.

    - 0.01 (1%)

Choose the wrong option
-----------------------

Some survey questions or administrative forms ask the respondent to choose
between a list of options.

> This noise type occurs when the wrong option is chosen by mistake.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This noise type occurs when the wrong option is chosen intentionally or by mistake.
```

> This noise type occurs when the wrong option is chosen by mistake.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This noise type occurs when the wrong option is chosen, either intentionally or by mistake.
```

Reviewer 2: Actually, it's confusing to start this sentence with "This noise type" because the previous sentence was not talking about a noise type. The paragraph structure for "choose the wrong option" and "leave a field blank" is a bit different from the other two noise functions, so I think they should be edited to all match. Trying to come up with some suggested edits now...

Reviewer 2: Here's one idea:

If a question on a survey or administrative form provides a list of options, respondents may sometimes choose the wrong option, either intentionally or by mistake. pseudopeople simulates this type of noise by selecting from the available options uniformly at random for a fraction of the cells in a categorical column. The [Datasets](https://github.com/ihmeuw/pseudopeople/pull/datasets/index.html#datasets-main) page lists the available options for each categorical column in pseudopeople's datasets.

Author: Thanks for this -- it's much better! I'm revising it a bit further to make it less statistical-sounding, and because I don't think "categorical" in this context will reflect how our users think about things.

The options available depend on the column; see the :ref:`datasets page <datasets_main>` for
lists of options that correspond to each column.
All wrong options are equally likely.

This noise type is called :code:`choose_wrong_option` in the configuration.
It takes one parameter:

.. list-table:: Parameters to the :code:`choose_wrong_option` noise type
  :widths: 1 5 1
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Parameter
    - Description
    - Default
  * - :code:`cell_probability`
    - The probability that, for a cell in the column being configured, the wrong option is chosen.
      The probability of this noise type is the same for all cells in a column;
      it is not correlated with any attributes.
    - 0.01 (1%)

Write the wrong ZIP code digits
-------------------------------

When reporting a ZIP code on a survey or form, people may misremember or misreport
the digits.

> They are probably more likely to get confused about the last few digits (which identify

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They are probably more likely to do this for the last few digits (which identify
```

the small, specific area) than the first few (which will be the same over a larger area).

This noise type is called :code:`write_wrong_zipcode_digits` in the configuration.
It takes two parameters:

.. list-table:: Parameters to the :code:`write_wrong_zipcode_digits` noise type

>   :widths: 1 5 1

Reviewer 2: Maybe make the last column wider so the list is easier to read?

  :header-rows: 1

  * - Parameter
    - Description
    - Default
  * - :code:`cell_probability`
    - The probability of a cell being *considered* to have this noise type.
      One way to think about this is the probability that a ZIP code is reported by someone who isn't sure of their ZIP code.

>       This probability is the same for all cells in a column; it is not correlated with any attributes.

Reviewer 2: Again, I'm not sure what you mean by "attributes."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      This probability is the same for all cells in a column; it is not correlated with any simulant attributes.
```

Author: Yeah the issue here is that not all columns are _simulant_ attributes -- for example, the `event_date` column of SSA is about the event, not the simulant.

It seems clear that trying to say this concisely in each noise type's section is not working. I'll expand it and move it to the top of the page before the individual noise types.

      Whether or not there are actually any errors depends on the next parameter.
    - 0.01 (1%)
  * - :code:`digit_probabilities`
    - A list of probabilities, one for each digit in a (5-digit) ZIP code.
      The first item in this list is the probability **in a cell considered for this noise type** that the first digit of the ZIP
      code will be wrong, the second item is the same probability for the second digit, and so on.

>     - [0.2, 0.2, 0.2, 0.36, 0.36]

Reviewer 2: Why did we choose such a (relatively) high probability for the first digits compared to the last two?

Reviewer 2: I think when I originally wrote this noise function I had them set to [0.04, 0.04, 0.2, 0.36, 0.36]

Reviewer 2: Then I switched them to [0.04, 0.04, 0.16, 0.4, 0.4 ]

>     - [0.2, 0.2, 0.2, 0.36, 0.36]

Reviewer 2: How about:

A list of probabilities, one for each digit in a (5-digit) ZIP code. The first value in this list is the conditional probability--given that a cell has been chosen for this noise type--that the first digit of the ZIP code in this cell will be wrong. The second value is the conditional probability that the second digit in the chosen cell will be wrong, and so on.

Author: I like most of this but "conditional probability" doesn't strike me as approachable. I'll try to rework that phrase.

Misreport age
-------------

When someone reports their age in years, or especially when someone reports the age of someone else such as a family member,
they may not get the value exactly right.
When this noise type occurs, the reported age is off by some amount, for example a year or two older or younger than the
person actually is.

This noise type is called :code:`misreport_age` in the configuration.
It takes two parameters:

.. list-table:: Parameters to the :code:`misreport_age` noise type

>   :widths: 1 5 1

Reviewer 2: Maybe make the width of the last column a bit wider so it's easier to read the dictionary?

  :header-rows: 1

  * - Parameter
    - Description
    - Default
  * - :code:`cell_probability`

>     - The probability that, for an age value in the column being configured, the age is misreported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - The probability that the age in any given column cell is misreported.
```
Not sure if that's the best way to say it, but the original sentence is clunky and hard to follow.

      The probability of this noise type is the same for all cells in a column;

>       it is not correlated with any attributes.

Reviewer 2: It's getting pretty redundant to say this in every parameter table. Since all the noise types (except Borrowed SSN I guess) have a cell probability, and it's never correlated with anything, can we just say this once at the top of the page or something?

    - 0.01 (1%)
  * - :code:`possible_age_differences`
    - One of two options:

        * A list of possible differences to add to the true age to get the misreported age.
          A negative number means that the reported age is too young, while a positive number means it is too old.
          Each difference is equally likely.
        * A dictionary mapping from possible differences to the corresponding probabilities of those differences.
          This is like the list option except that it allows some differences to be more likely than others.
          The probabilities must add up to 1.

>     - {-2: 0.1, -1: 0.4, +1: 0.4, +2: 0.1}

Reviewer 2: I kind of like how + emphasizes the difference from -, but is unary plus valid Python syntax? Do we care if the parameter values listed here are valid Python?

Author: Unary plus is valid Python!

```
>>> +1
1
```

> 

Reviewer: Should we include a note about how we avoid negative ages?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, we probably should.

Reviewer 2: And we should probably say that 0 is not allowed as a possible difference.

-------------------------------

When reporting a ZIP code on a survey or form, people may misremember or misreport
the digits.
They are probably more likely to do this for the last few digits (which identify
the small, specific area) than the first few (which will be the same over a larger area).

This noise type is called :code:`write_wrong_zipcode_digits` in the configuration.
It takes two parameters:

.. list-table:: Parameters to the write_wrong_zipcode_digits noise type
  :widths: 1 5 3
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Parameter
    - Description
    - Default
  * - :code:`cell_probability`
    - The probability of a cell being *considered* to have this noise type.
      One way to think about this is the probability that a ZIP code is reported by someone who isn't sure of their ZIP code.
      Whether or not there are actually any errors depends on the next parameter.
    - 0.01 (1%)
  * - :code:`digit_probabilities`
    - A list of five probabilities, one for each digit in a (5-digit) ZIP code.
      The first value in this list is the probability that the first digit of the ZIP code will be wrong
      **given that the cell is being considered for this noise type**.

>       The second value in the list is this same probability but about the second digit, and so on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      The second value in the list is the corresponding probability for the second digit, and so on.
```
I think it's confusing to say it's the "same" probability. How about "corresponding"?

>     - [0.04, 0.04, 0.20, 0.36, 0.36]

Reviewer 2: Ok, now that we've changed these (back?), we'd better make sure the values match the actual default values in the code

Author: I did! They're here: https://github.com/ihmeuw/pseudopeople/blob/81beb82d4cf58298b96a1eabb2f44d91b53c5a35/src/pseudopeople/noise_entities.py#L41

Misreport age
-------------

When someone reports their age in years, or especially when someone reports the age of someone else such as a family member,
they may not get the value exactly right.
When this noise type occurs, the reported age is off by some amount, for example a year or two older or younger than the
person actually is.

This noise type is called :code:`misreport_age` in the configuration.
It takes two parameters:

.. list-table:: Parameters to the misreport_age noise type
  :widths: 1 5 3
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Parameter
    - Description
    - Default
  * - :code:`cell_probability`
    - The probability of each age value being misreported.
    - 0.01 (1%)
  * - :code:`possible_age_differences`
    - One of two options:

        * A list of possible differences to add to the true age to get the misreported age.
          A negative number means that the reported age is too young, while a positive number means it is too old.
          Each difference is equally likely.
        * A dictionary mapping from possible differences to the corresponding probabilities of those differences.

>           This is like the list option except that it allows some differences to be more likely than others.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          This is like the list option except that it allows some age differences to be more likely than others.
```
It might be a little clearer to be more specific
